# ASSIGNMENT-6
6

Assignment-06 What is a perspective grid? Explain in detail. Perspective is a theory of drawing, which allows the artist a way to graphically depict three-dimensional objects on paper or other media, as they exist in space. The rules of perspective are many, but are based on the assumption that a single eye, from a fixed point of view, is looking at the subject being drawn. How each object is viewed in relation to other objects will determine a sense of depth, size relationship and false believability that the artwork is real or familiar to what we see. A three-dimensional object is anything that has length, width and height. To avoid listing most everything in the world, a few examples include: a box, a car, an apple, a tree, a building, a person and a book. Illustrator allows the use of specially designed grids to act as a guide when drawing in perspective. To display the perspective grid with two vanishing points by default, choose in the menu View / Perspective grid / Show grid. Drawing on a perspective plane By default, the perspective grid with two vanishing points is displayed. To be able to adjust it, you need to select the Perspective Grid tool from the toolbox. To draw a shape based on one of the perspective planes, select the desired plane in the change plane widget, then draw the shape on the plane. To draw another shape on the other plane, change the plane in the widget and draw the second plane. 
Dive into digital tools When drawing digitally in Photoshop, I find that it's usually too cumbersome to expand the canvas to draw all the perspective lines receding to a vanishing point to the far left or right outside the scene. In this case I tend to add a basic square grid for guidance, which I adjust to the main perspective lines using the program's Skew tool (Edit > Free Transform > Skew). This usually provides enough guidance that more detailed lines can be drawn by eye, even if they don't fall exactly on a gridline. Drawing digitally also allows for some other timesaving shortcuts, particularly when drawing repeating elements in perspective, such as a building that has many windows of the same size and shape. Here's my method for depicting repeating elements. First, draw one window and save the file, calling it 'Single Window'. Next, create a new document, go to File > Place Linked... and choose your Single Window file. Add as many multiples of the window as you need, arranging them to suit the facade of the building that you are drawing. Then save the file as 'Facade 1'. Now create a new document, and Place Linked file Facade 1. You can now skew the facade to the perspective that you need, without having to draw all the windows individually. In addition, if you make a change to your Single Window file, then all the copies will also update in the perspective view. Finally, link the facade file and skew to suit the perspective in the scene. Embrace your errors It's only when some extraordinarily complex shape is required that I ever use 3D modelling software to help generate the image. This is partly from a stubborn delight in a technical drawing challenge, but also because apart from the flexibility it gives you, it also allows for some mistakes. I feel it's in these small errors we make when we craft something by hand that some of our personality shows through in the work. I feel like my inaccuracies are probably specific to me, and that I make the same small mistakes in similar ways over and over again when drawing. The nearer that a draughtsman gets to robotic perfection, the less present are the signs of a human 
